All right so now that we've seen how to run some javascript in an internal way we're going to see how
we can start interacting with elements on the page.
But the moment all we're doing is alerting something.
So that's a pop up which tells the user something.
But very often of course what we want is for our code to affect something that appears on the screen
itself.
So let's get rid of our button and type in anything we like.
So I get back to the old standard hello world and then let's just make sure that that's updated.
There we go and of course we get our pop up as well.
So what if we wanted using javascript to update the contents of this paragraph tag and change the text
to something else.
That's a basic example of something we might want to do in a real life page.
For example if we've got a log in form and someone clicks the logon button without having intimate details
it would be a useful thing to show them a message to tell them to enter their details.
And this is how we would do that.
So let's get rid of our alert instruction and see how we access this element here.
Now as you may remember the classes and IDs that we used in CSA as I mentioned can also be used in javascript
and ID's and particularly are very powerful because the thing about IDS is they refer uniquely to an
element.
So it's very easy in javascript to get an element by its ID.
So let's get this paragraph text an ID of text and now let's find out the javascript for selecting that
and doing something with it.
So we start off by typing the key word document.
So document tells the javascript that we're going to be looking for something inside this document makes
sense and then we use a don't go within the document and then we want to get an element by its ID.
So you've got that top on that and you could imagine maybe what those other ones might be used for as
well.
But we're going to go for get element by ID which does exactly what it says on the tin.
It gets an element by its ID.
Notice also the capitalization here because we're going to be using this throughout our use of javascript
to come into many programming languages where we start with a small letter and then each word in the
function name is the first letter capitalized.
So go get is all small elements begin with a capital A by with a capital B and ID with a capital.
So that's just quite a nice way of making it readable without putting in spaces or hyphens or anything
nasty like that.
All right so this instruction will get an element by its ID.
We need to tell it the ID of the element that we want.
So we put in brackets and you can see my text that is in here is telling me that we need a string which
isnt the ID.
So a string is just a bunch of characters.
So it goes in double quotes as we used to.
And then we just put in the ID.
So this will now get the element text by its ID.
So we've now got the element that we want to change.
How do we change it.
Well we add another dot and then use the instruction in the H TNL and this gets as you might imagine
the age TNL of this element with ID of text and we want to change that to something else.
So we said equal t and then whatever string we want.
So maybe I want to change it to.
Hello Rob.
Rather than Hello World.
And that's our full instruction.
So there's quite a lot of new stuff in there.
So take a moment to just go back and make sure you understand what each of those bits are doing.
I'm going to just quickly recap it for you.
Document means that we're going to get something within the document that we work in.
So that's this whole page tremelo document here and then get element by ID says that we want to get
an element within the document by its ID then we pass the ID that we're interested in which is text
and then we want to get to the in eight DML of that element which at the moment is hello world and then
we want to set it equal to something else.
I.e. in this case.
Hello Rob.
That's it.
I remember we've got an optional semi-colon and I'd recommend putting semi-colons at the end.
That will work without them.
All right.
Let's have a look.
So if we now save that and then run it you can see we've got halo Rob right there.
So it might not look that exciting but we want what we've managed to do there is actually change the
content of our page using javascript.
So that's a really powerful thing to be able to do.
One quick thing to show you before we move on is comments within javascript and this can be very useful
as you're writing your code to leave comments to remind yourself later on what your code is actually
doing or if someone else is going to be editing your script or looking at your code.
It can be very useful to them as well.
So there's a couple of ways to add comments in javascript and they're common to pretty much every programming
language out there which is great.
So if you want to have a one line comment you add a double forward slash their
And then if we just run that again it's no different at all it still works.
We still get al-Arab But obviously the comment doesn't do anything.
So you can write whatever text you like that Secondly if you want to add a multi-line comment you do
slash and then a star to begin the multiline comment and you can see that this is now commented out
this part here as well which we don't want.
So we have to end the multiline comment and we do that with a star and a slash.
So now we can put whatever we like in between those two.
And it will be considered a comment.
It won't be processed with the code because something like this is a multi dash line coming out.
We can put whatever we like in there as many lines as we want.
So just to check once again it's code still works.
I haven't broken anything.
All right.
So that's how you do both one line and multi-line comments in Javascript.
And it's also how we change the content of our page using javascript.
Of course doing that on the page load is not necessarily that exciting because we can't actually see
it happen because it happens so fast we never see the hello world.
So in the next video we'll see how we can use buttons to process javascript on demand i.e. when the
button is pressed.